<!--- Copyright (c) 2014 Spence Konde. See the file LICENSE for copying permission. -->
SPI EEPROMs (like AT25256)
========================

* KEYWORDS: Module,EEPROM,storage,rom,AT25256,AT25512,AT25128,AT25640,AT25320


Overview
------------------

This module interfaces to an SPI EEPROM that uses 2 bytes for the address. The table below shows the Atmel part numbers that this module should be compatible with, and the appropriate parameters for them. There are also pin compatible EEPROMs available from many other manufacturers, including the M95xxx (ST Microelectronics), 25AAxxx/25LCxxx (Microchip), CAT25xxx (ON Semi), BR25Sxxx (Rohm) (in all cases, the xxx is the size of the part, in kbits. For 32 and 64 bit, xxx is 320 and 640 respectively). Parts are available in DIP-8, SOP-8, and TSSOP-8. All of these parts should work equally well with this module.

The I2C version of these EEPROMs, the AT24 series, is often more convenient to use, needing only 2 wires for I2C, while this requires 4 (3 for SPI and the CS pin); breakout boards and modules for AT24 series are also readily available. However, if integrating this into something where SPI is already in use, it will only require 1 extra wire for CS. 

| Part    | Size (kbit) | Size (kbyte) | Page size |
|---------|-------------|--------------|-----------|
| AT25320 | 32          | 4 KBytes     | 32 bytes  |
| AT25640 | 64          | 8 KBytes     | 32 bytes  |
| AT25128 | 128         | 16 KBytes    | 64 bytes  |
| AT25256 | 256         | 32 KBytes    | 64 bytes  |
| AT25512 | 512         | 64 KBytes    | 128 bytes |

This is not compatible with EEPROMs with a capacity of less than 32 kbit, as these use a different addressing scheme. These use a 2 byte address to specify memory locations (with the appropriate number of most significant bits being ignored on smaller EEPROMs).


Wiring
-------------------

Connect VCC and Hold to +3.3v, GND to GND, SCK, SO and SI to SCK, MISO and MOSI SPI pins, and CS to any GPIO pin. WP should also be connected to either VCC, or a GPIO pin if you wish to use that pin for write protection. 


Setup
-------------------

Setup I2C, then call:

```JavaScript 
var eeprom=require("AT25").connect(spi, pagesize, capacity, cspin)
```

`spi` is the spi bus. 

`pagesize` is the page size for page writes. 

`capacity` is the eeprom capacity, in kbits. 

`cspin` is the pin connected to CS. 


Reading
---------------

```JavaScript
eeprom.read(address,bytes)
eeprom.reads(address,bytes)
```

`read()` reads the specified number of bytes, starting at the specified address. This is returned as a Uint8Array. 

`reads()` reads the specified number of bytes, 64 bytes at a time, and returns them as a string.

Writing
----------------

```JavaScript
eeprom.writes(address,data)
eeprom.writeb(address,data)
```

These functions write the specified data to the specified address. `writes()` writes a string, `writeb()` writes an array of bytes (either simple or Uint8Array). The data to be written must be no longer than the page length. 

These EEPROMs support "page writes", where as many bytes can be written at once as the page length (See table above for examples). If the write would run off the end of the page, it will wrap around to the beginning of the page. For this reason, care is required when making large writes like this.  

```JavaScript
eeprom.writel(address,data)
```

This writes data (as a string) that is longer than the page size to the EEPROM. It will write it page-by-page, into consecutive pages. `address` must be on a page boundary. There is a 5ms internal write cycle after each page. This write method waits for it, and as a result, this function may take a while to return for long writes.

Utility
---------------

```JavaScript
eeprom.aToS(array)
```

This converts an array (types or simple) to a string. This is used internally, and is also very useful if loading text from the EEPROM. 

Example
---------------

Write some code to page starting at 0x0100. Then we read() 64 bytes starting from 0x0FC0 (all 255's - this is the state of an unprogrammed eeprom). Then we read() another 64 bytes - this time, starting from 0x1000, where the code was written to. Then, we convert the result to a string and evaluate it. 


```JavaScript
>SPI2.setup({sck:B13,miso:B14,mosi:b15});
=undefined
>var eeprom=require("AT25").connect(SPI2,128,512,C4);
={
  "spi": SPI2,
  "cspin": C4, "pgsz": 128, "cap": 65536, "ca": 0 }
>eeprom.writes(0x1000,"digitalWrite(A15,1);");
=1
>var temp = eeprom.read(0x0FC0,64); 
=[255,255,255,255,255, ... 255,255,255,255,255]
>var temp = eeprom.read(0x1000,64);
=[100,105,103,105,116, ... 255,255,255,255,255]
>eeprom.arrayToString(temp);
="digitalWrite(A15," ... "ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ"
>eval(eeprom.arrayToString(temp)); 
=undefined
> 
```
