<!--- Copyright (c) 2016 Gordon Williams, Pur3 Ltd. See the file LICENSE for copying permission. -->
RN2483/RN2483A LoRa Modules
============================

<span style="color:red">:warning: **Please view the correctly rendered version of this page at https://www.espruino.com/RN2483. Links, lists, videos, search, and other features will not work correctly when viewed on GitHub** :warning:</span>

* KEYWORDS: Module,RN2483,RN2903,Microchip,UART,LoRa,LoRaWAN,Wireless,Radio,Transceiver

The RN2483/RN2483A is a fully-certified 433/868 MHz module based on wireless LoRa technology.
The module's embedded LoRaWAN Class A protocol allows you connect to LoRaWAN compliant
network infrastructure

There's a great tutorial [on using the RN2483 module with The Things Network here](https://github.com/yerpj/TTN_with_Espruino/blob/master/QuickStart.md)


Wiring Up
---------

All you need to connect is power, ground, RX and TX pins (to [UART](/USART)-capable pins on your Espruino),
and optionally the Reset pin.

If you're using [this breakout board](https://www.tindie.com/products/DrAzzy/rn2483-breakout-bare-board/)
then you can place it in breadboard alongside an Espruino [Pico](/Pico) or [WiFi](/WiFi), making
sure it connects as follows:

| RN2483 Pin  |  Espruino connection |
|-----|----------------------|
| GND |  GND                 |
| 3V3 |  3.3v                |
| RST |  B3 (Optional)       |
| RX  |  B6 (Serial1 TX)     |
| TX  |  B7 (Serial1 RX)     |


Software
--------

Get started by initialising the `RN2483` module with Serial at 57600 baud
on the correct pins:

```
var RN2483 = require("RN2483");
Serial1.setup(57600, { tx:B6, rx:B7 });
var lora = new RN2483(Serial1, {reset:B3});
```

**Note:** If attempting to debug you can use `{debug:true}` in the options,
eg: `var lora = new RN2483(Serial1, {reset:B3, debug:true});`


### Stand-alone Radio

Once the radio has been set up as above, you can set the RN2483 up to listen
on Non-LoRaWAN radio for a certain period of time:

```
lora.radioRX(10000 /* 10000ms = 10 seconds */, function(data) {
  if (data === undefined) {
    console.log("No data received");
  } else {
    console.log("Got data: "+JSON.stringify(data));
  }
});
```

You can then transmit on another module:

```
lora.radioTX("Hello World!", function() {
  console.log("Data sent");
});
```

And the callback on the first module will be called with the data. `radioTX` and
`radioRX` automatically pack and unpack the data they are sent, so you can
send a String or Uint8Array containing binary data if you require. (although
  `radioRX` will always return data as a string).

### LoRaWAN

If you need a LoRaWAN server that's relatively lightweight and easy to install on something like a Raspberry Pi, you could use [lorawan-server](https://github.com/gotthardp/lorawan-server) by Petr Gotthard.

Once the RN2483 is set up (see above), you need to connect to a LoRa gateway:

```
lora.LoRaWAN(
  "01234567", // device address
  "0123456789ABCDEF0123456789ABCDEF", // nwkSKey
  "0123456789ABCDEF0123456789ABCDEF", // appSKey
  function(err) {
    if (!err) throw Error(err);
});
```

You can transmit with:

```
lora.loraTX("my_string_of_data", function(err) {
  if (!err) throw Error(err);
});
```

And can receive data by handling the `message` event:

```
lora.on('message', function(d) {
  console.log("RECEIVED",JSON.stringify(d));
});
```

You only need to call the above code once - it'll be executed whenever a message is received.

**Note:** LoRa Class A devices only receive data within a short window right after transmitting, so you'll want to ensure that you transmit every minute or so in order to receive data in a timely manner.



Reference
---------

* APPEND_JSDOC: RN2483.js


Buying
------

You can get the modules themselves from normal elecronics distributors like
Farnell, Mouser or RS. Just search for `RN2483A` (the `RN2483` has been replaced
  with the updated but compatible `RN2483A`).

However you'll need a breakout board. You can buy one
[from DrAzzy on Tindie](https://www.tindie.com/products/DrAzzy/rn2483-breakout-bare-board/)
that will break out the connections in a form that will connect directly to the
edge of the Espruino [Pico](/Pico) or [WiFi](/WiFi) boards.
